.. _titles:

Titles
======

.. _titles-explore-label:

Explore Titles
--------------

Explore titles contains all the title entries organized by ID. For each title, the title list shows the Title ID, Title, Contributor (Roles), Firms (Firm Role), Date, and Edition.

.. _titles-search-label:

Search Titles
-------------

The Title Search page defaults to a basic title search function with a Results Sorted By field and an Advanced Search button. 


.. _titles-search-title:

Title
  Text search for all or part of a title.

.. _titles-search-results-sorted-by:

Results Sorted By
  Sort results alphabetically, by publication date, by first publication date, and by edition number.

.. _titles-search-id:

Title ID
  Search for a title by entering the exact Title ID number.

.. _titles-search-filter-person:

Filter by Person
  Titles can be filtered by all or part of a Person’s name, by gender (female, male, or unknown), and by firm role. 

.. _titles-search-signed-author:

Signed author
  Text search for title by Signed author field

.. _titles-search-pseudonym:

Pseudonym
  Text search for title by Pseudonym field

.. _titles-search-filter-firm:

Filter by Firm
  Titles can be filtered by all of part of a Firm’s name, by Firm gender (female, male, unknown), by Firm role (Publisher, Printer, Bookseller, Unknown), and by Firm Address.  

.. _titles-search-self-published:

Self-Published
	Search by whether a title has been self-published or not. 

.. _titles-search-volumes:

Volumes
	Search for a title by entering the exact number of volumes.

.. _titles-search-date-of-publication:

Date of Publication
  Search for the year a title was published (e.g. 1795) or a range of years (1790-1800) or partial range of years (``*``-1800).

.. _titles-search-date-of-first-publication:

Date of First Publication
  Search for the year a title was first published (e.g. 1795) or a range of years (1790-1800) or partial range of years (``*``-1800).

.. _titles-search-edition-number:

Edition Number
  Search for a title by entering the edition number.

.. _titles-search-imprint:

Imprint
  Text search for title by Imprint field.

.. _titles-search-colophon:

Colophon
  Text search for title by Colophon field [link].

.. _titles-search-location-of-printing:

Location of Printing
  Searches Location of Printing field

.. _titles-search-format:

Format
  Titles can be filtered by the Format in which they were printed.  A description of all formats can be found in Explore Formats [link]. 

.. _titles-search-length:

Length
  Search for a title by entering the length of the page in centimetres.

.. _titles-search-width:

Width
  Search for a title by entering the width of the page in centimetres. 

.. _titles-search-filter-by-price:

Filter by Price
  Title search can be filtered by Price (pound) field [link], Price (shilling) field [link], and/or Price (pence) field [link]. Filter search by Equal To (exact), Less Than, or Greater Than the amount entered. 

.. _titles-search-genre:

Genre
  Titles can be filtered by the Genres in which they were printed.  A description of all formats can be found in Explore Genres [link]. 

.. _titles-search-shelfmark:

Shelfmark
  Search for title by entering the Shelfmark [link].

.. _titles-search-notes:

Notes
	Search by the Notes field [link]. 

.. _titles-search-hand-verified:

Hand-Verified
  Title search can be filtered by titles which have been Hand-Verified [link] by clicking Yes, or not Hand-Verified by clicking No. The default setting of None removes the filter. 

.. _titles-search-verified:

Verified
  Title search can be filtered by titles which have been Verified [link] by clicking Yes, or not Verified by clicking No. The default setting of None removes the filter. 

.. _titles-search-attempted-verification:

Attempted Verification
  Title search can be filtered by texts which have had an Attempted Verification [link] by clicking Yes, or no attempted Verification by clicking No. The default setting of None removes the filter.

Search results appear below the search fields. The search can be reset using the reset button. A list of the entries generated by the search can be exported using the export button. Results can be exported with MLA, Chicago, APA formatting or as a BibTex file. Search results include the Title ID, Title, Contributors (Role), Firms (Role), Date of Publication, Edition [all linked].

Title fields
------------

.. _title-field-id:

Title ID
  Unique ID number for this entry

.. _title-field-title:

Title
  Full title as it appears on the title page, including subtitle, signed author, and edition statement where applicable

.. _title-field-contributors:

Contributors
  Linked to the :ref:`Person List <person-list>`. Contribution roles include name of author(s) (if known) and, where appropriate, editors, translators, authors of introductory material, engravers, and women involved in printing, publishing, bookselling, etc. If any of the roles are attributed to a woman whose name is unknown, they will be listed as “Unknown.”

.. _title-field-signed-author:

Signed author
  Author attribution as it appears on the title page or at the end of the preface. (Ex. “By a lady,” “By the author of . . . “)


.. _title-field-pseudonym:

Pseudonym
  If the author has signed the work with a name that is false or made up.


.. _title-field-firms:

Firms
  Linked to the :ref:`Firms <firm-list>`. Includes all printers, publishers, and booksellers listed in the imprint and colophon.

  
.. _title-field-self-published:

Self published
  Indicates whether the title was published by the author or whether it was published by an external publishing firm.

.. _title-field-volumes:

Volumes
  Number of volumes that the edition was published in, indicated in arabic numerals.
  
.. _title-field-pagination:

Pagination
  Pagination of each volume. Each volume indicated by a capital letter roman numeral, prefatory matter indicated by lowercase roman numerals, regular pagination indicated in arabic numerals.


.. _title-field-date-of-publication:

Date of Publication
  Date (year) as it appears in the imprint. Where imprint information is unavailable, this will reflect the best estimate we have.

.. _title-field-edition:

Edition
  Edition as it appears in the edition statement on the title page; 1st editions are not indicated on title pages so in the case of an earliest known printing 1st edition is assumed.

.. _title-field-edition-number:

Edition Number
  Edition number translated into arabic numerals from the form as it appeared on the title page. 


.. _title-field-date-of-first-publication:

Date of first publication
  Date (year) that the work was first published.

.. _title-field-imprint:

Imprint
  Information about printers, publishers, booksellers as represented on the title page

.. _title-field-colophon:

Colophon
  Information, usually about the printer, including an address when provided, found at the front or the back of the book.

.. _title-field-location-of-printing:

Location of printing
  City or town and country in which publication was printed. Selecting location will open the Geonames entry.

.. _title-field-format:

Format
  The way that sheets have been folded and gathered into pages. Formats might include folio, quarto, octavo, duodecimo, sextodecimo, octodecimo, vicesimo-quarto. Selecting the format will open a page with description of format and list of titles published in that format.


.. _title-field-length:

Length
  Length of page measured in cm.

.. _title-field-size-width:

Width
  Width of page measured in cm.
  
.. _title-field-price-pound:

Price (pound)
  Portion of price (pounds) as listed on the title page or in catalogues and periodicals.

.. _title-field-price-shilling:

Price (shilling)
  Portion of price (shillings) as listed on the title page or in catalogues and periodicals.

.. _title-field-price-pence:

Price (pence)
  Portion of price (pence) as listed on the title page or in catalogues and periodicals.

.. _title-field-price-total:

Total price (in pence)
  Total price as listed on the title page or in catalogues and periodicals expressed in pence.

.. _title-field-genre:

Genre
  Category into which the work falls. Descriptions of each genre in Explore Genres. Selecting the genre will open produce a list of all titles in that genre.

.. _title-field-sources:

Sources
List of sources consulted to populate the entry fields. Sources include the source name and ID. The source ID will vary according to the source, but will correspond to a unique identifier for the source consulted. For descriptions of sources, see Explore Sources. Selecting the source name will open a page with information about that source and a list of titles that use that source. If the source ID is hyperlinked, selecting it will take you to the original source record.


.. _title-field-shelfmarks:

Shelfmarks
  Call numbers for location in various libraries.

.. _title-field-notes:

Notes
  Any important information that does not fit in the above fields will be indicated here, as well as links to sources that do not have a unique identifying number.

.. _title-field-hand-verified:

Hand-verified
  Indicates that a physical copy of the text has been consulted.

.. _title-field-attempted-verification:

Attempted Verification
  Indicates that an attempt has been made to identify sources but that only one source was found. 

.. _title-field-verified:

Verified
  Indicates that two or more sources have been found or that the work has been hand-verified. For a detailed description of the verification process, see Project Methodology - Titles.

.. _title-field-bibliographic-entry:

Bibliographic Entry
  Provides citation format for that title information for the user in MLA, APA, Chicago/Turabian, and BibTex. Select tabs to change format.

.. _title-field-suggestions-and-comments: 

Suggestions and Comments
  To make a suggestion or comment on a title entry, select Suggestions and Comments and fill out the form. Use this form to make suggested revisions or additions to the title record. 
